syntax
python include
30+ keywords
variables, comments, constants, keywords, statements, methods, data types
functions
classes

variables rules :
1. variables name should always start with a-z and A-Z
2. you cannot use digit at the start of variables name (0-9)
3. you cannot use any symbol except underscore (_) if u wanna use this symbole always use in the middle
4. variables names should not be keywords- for else if elif break cannot use
5. variables names are always case sensetives- (case sensitive means python consider the differance between upper ans smaller case a and A)


statements
1.conditional statements - boolean operators-btrue/false
- if  - you have single condition and want output for only true part
- if else - you have single condition but you want for both true/false part
- if elif else - you have multiple condition

2.Looping statements
- for loop
- while loop


functions way
1. functions without parameter- the values given to variables are parameters
2.functions with parameter
3. function with return statements
4. function with default parameter


file handling : formats of file
mode = flags - opening format of any file
read - 'r'
write - 'w'
append - 'a'
create- 'x'

open('abc.txt','r') = if its read mode it will open or get error
open('abc.txt','w') = if its in write mode it will open orcreate new file
open('abc.txt','a') = if its in append mode it will open orcreate new file
open('abc.txt','x') = if its in  create mode it will open orcreate new file

operations
1. open()
2. read()
3. write()
4. close()


packages/module

exception handlinge
try : execution/logic 
except - error,if the error occuur
finally - always execute

OOPS : 
object orianted programming:
- security reusability , reability 
1.class - key word = __init__s
2.object

4 pillers of OOPS - important
-inheritance - to inherite property
　1. single inheritance - class 1 to class 2 (a to b)
  2. multiple inheritance - class 1 to class 2 to class 3
  3. multilevel inheritance - from class 1 and class 2 to class 3
  4. heiririchal inheritance - from class 1 to class 2 and 3
  5. hybrid inheritance - combination of all class

-abstraction - to hide unnecessary data- syntax = from abc import ABC, abstractmethod
         1. data abstraction - data hide
         2. process abstraction - hide process
- abstract class- you can not create object
- ABC class for abstraction for use of abstraction = python - ABC

-encapsulation : to provide security for data, data bindig id(__a)= value syntax for encapsulation
                     as it does not change the id of the given variable in python
-polymorphism - same function / method with different meaning


-threading : number of process 
thread - task / perticular process
- single threading-  1 thread 1 process
- multiple threading - multiple process

main thread - even we dont give the thread always main thread is working

- regular expression
to search and replace perticular data

# github commands
1. git init - intialiazation ( connection from vs code to git)
#2. git add - add file
#3. git commit - save
4. git add remote origin - to connect github repository annd folder
5. git status - status show of folder
6. git branch - main branch code working
7. git pull - downlad
#8.git push - upload
9. git clone - copy paste
10. git fork - copy paste